---
layout: post
title: Vim tag
tags: vim
---
# Vim tag
1.Tag files contain the source file locations of all function,
macro, and type definitions used in a programming project.  Most
editors, including vim and emacs, are able to jump directly to the
source code location of a function, macro, or type definition, as
specified in the project's tag file.

To create tag files, edit Makefile and add the following makefile
target:

```
   tags:
           etags *.cc *.h
           ctags *.cc *.h
```

Now run "make tags" to create tag files for both vim and emacs.
To use the tags, open hello.cc in your favorite editor, and type
the appopriate command:

```
   vim:
           :ta dumb_func

   emacs:
           Meta-.
           dumb_func
```

This should take you to the definition of function dumb_func.
To return to where you came from, type ^t (control-t) in vim, or
Meta-* in emacs.

2.RCS (the revision control system) is a handy tool to keep track of the
history of changes made to files.  It maintains only the diffs between
versions, minimizing space requirements.  It allows you to "back out" to
a previous version of a file at any time.  It also facilitates logging
of notes about your changes.  Advanced features include a locking
mechanism to prevent partners on a team from making changes to the same
file at the same time and a "3-way merge" mechanism to combine changes
made independently to a common source.

Read the man pages for 'ci', 'co', and 'rcs'.
"Check in" your file with

```
   ci -l hello.cc
```

Check it out with

```
   co -l hello.cc
```

Make a change and check it in again.  Now type

```
   rlog hello.cc
```

to see a history of your changes.

NB: RCS is very old.  There are several substantially more capable
alternatives, including cvs (which is built on rcs, and still
pretty old), subversion (svn), bazaar (bzr), git, mercurial (hg),
and perforce (p4).